.TH YBAR 1 "November 2025" "ybar 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ybar \- A custom menubar replacement for macOS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ybar
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ybar
is a lightweight, configurable menubar replacement for macOS written in Swift.
It provides a translucent bar at the top of the screen showing a clock and
AeroSpace workspace indicator.
.PP
The menubar requires the native macOS menubar to be set to "always hide" for
proper operation.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-help, \-h
Display help information and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version, \-v
Display version information and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-conf \fIFILE\fR, \-c \fIFILE\fR
Use the specified configuration file instead of the default ~/.ybar.conf
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is read from
.I ~/.ybar.conf
unless overridden with the
.B \-\-conf
option. The configuration file uses a simple key=value format.
.PP
Available configuration options:
.TP
.B height
Height of the menubar in pixels (default: 24)
.TP
.B opacity
Background opacity from 0.0 to 1.0 (default: 0.7)
.TP
.B blur
Enable background blur effect (default: true)
.TP
.B show_clock
Show clock on the right side (default: true)
.TP
.B show_workspace
Show AeroSpace workspace indicator on the left (default: true)
.TP
.B clock_format
Date format string for the clock (default: HH:mm:ss)
Uses standard date format specifiers:
  HH - hour (00-23), mm - minute (00-59), ss - second (00-59)
  yyyy - year, MM - month, dd - day
.TP
.B font_size
Font size for text elements (default: 13)
.TP
.B text_color
Text color in hexadecimal format (default: #FFFFFF)
.TP
.B workspace_prefix
Prefix string for workspace indicator (default: empty)
.SH EXAMPLE CONFIGURATION
.nf
# ~/.ybar.conf
height = 26
opacity = 0.8
blur = true
show_clock = true
show_workspace = true
clock_format = HH:mm
font_size = 14
text_color = #FFFFFF
workspace_prefix = WS:
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.ybar.conf
Default configuration file
.SH REQUIREMENTS
.IP \(bu 2
macOS native menubar must be set to "always hide"
.IP \(bu 2
AeroSpace window manager (optional, for workspace indicator)
.SH AUTHORS
.br
Torstein Krause Johansen
.br
Copilot
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aerospace (1)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs to the project repository or issue tracker.
